docs/configuration/required-settings.md, before:

# Required Configuration Settings

## ALLOWED_HOSTS

This is a list of valid fully-qualified domain names (FQDNs) and/or IP addresses that can be used to reach the NetBox service. Usually this is the same as the hostname for the NetBox server, but can also be different; for example, when using a reverse proxy serving the NetBox website under a different FQDN than the hostname of the NetBox server. To help guard against [HTTP Host header attackes](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/topics/security/#host-headers-virtual-hosting), NetBox will not permit access to the server via any other hostnames (or IPs).

!!! note
    This parameter must always be defined as a list or tuple, even if only a single value is provided.

The value of this option is also used to set `CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS`, which restricts POST requests to the same set of hosts (more about this [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#std:setting-CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS)). Keep in mind that NetBox, by default, sets `USE_X_FORWARDED_HOST` to true, which means that if you're using a reverse proxy, it's the FQDN used to reach that reverse proxy which needs to be in this list (more about this [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts)).

Example:

```
ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['netbox.example.com', '192.0.2.123']
```

If you are not yet sure what the domain name and/or IP address of the NetBox installation will be, and are comfortable accepting the risks in doing so, you can set this to a wildcard (asterisk) to allow all host values:

```
ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['*']
```

---

## DATABASE

NetBox requires access to a PostgreSQL 10 or later database service to store data. This service can run locally on the NetBox server or on a remote system. The following parameters must be defined within the `DATABASE` dictionary:

* `NAME` - Database name
* `USER` - PostgreSQL username
* `PASSWORD` - PostgreSQL password
* `HOST` - Name or IP address of the database server (use `localhost` if running locally)
* `PORT` - TCP port of the PostgreSQL service; leave blank for default port (TCP/5432)
* `CONN_MAX_AGE` - Lifetime of a [persistent database connection](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/databases/#persistent-connections), in seconds (300 is the default)

Example:

```python
DATABASE = {
    'NAME': 'netbox',               # Database name
    'USER': 'netbox',               # PostgreSQL username
    'PASSWORD': 'J5brHrAXFLQSif0K', # PostgreSQL password
    'HOST': 'localhost',            # Database server
    'PORT': '',                     # Database port (leave blank for default)
    'CONN_MAX_AGE': 300,            # Max database connection age
}
```

!!! note
    NetBox supports all PostgreSQL database options supported by the underlying Django framework. For a complete list of available parameters, please see [the Django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#databases).

---

## REDIS

[Redis](https://redis.io/) is an in-memory data store similar to memcached. While Redis has been an optional component of
NetBox since the introduction of webhooks in version 2.4, it is required starting in 2.6 to support NetBox's caching
functionality (as well as other planned features). In 2.7, the connection settings were broken down into two sections for
task queuing and caching, allowing the user to connect to different Redis instances/databases per feature.

Redis is configured using a configuration setting similar to `DATABASE` and these settings are the same for both of the `tasks` and `caching` subsections:

* `HOST` - Name or IP address of the Redis server (use `localhost` if running locally)
* `PORT` - TCP port of the Redis service; leave blank for default port (6379)
* `PASSWORD` - Redis password (if set)
* `DATABASE` - Numeric database ID
* `SSL` - Use SSL connection to Redis
* `INSECURE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY` - Set to `True` to **disable** TLS certificate verification (not recommended)

An example configuration is provided below:

```python
REDIS = {
    'tasks': {
        'HOST': 'redis.example.com',
        'PORT': 1234,
        'PASSWORD': 'foobar',
        'DATABASE': 0,
        'SSL': False,
    },
    'caching': {
        'HOST': 'localhost',
        'PORT': 6379,
        'PASSWORD': '',
        'DATABASE': 1,
        'SSL': False,
    }
}
```

!!! note
    If you are upgrading from a NetBox release older than v2.7.0, please note that the Redis connection configuration
    settings have changed. Manual modification to bring the `REDIS` section inline with the above specification is
    necessary

!!! warning
    It is highly recommended to keep the task and cache databases separate. Using the same database number on the
    same Redis instance for both may result in queued background tasks being lost during cache flushing events.

### Using Redis Sentinel

If you are using [Redis Sentinel](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel) for high-availability purposes, there is minimal 
configuration necessary to convert NetBox to recognize it. It requires the removal of the `HOST` and `PORT` keys from 
above and the addition of three new keys.

* `SENTINELS`: List of tuples or tuple of tuples with each inner tuple containing the name or IP address 
of the Redis server and port for each sentinel instance to connect to
* `SENTINEL_SERVICE`: Name of the master / service to connect to
* `SENTINEL_TIMEOUT`: Connection timeout, in seconds

Example:

```python
REDIS = {
    'tasks': {
        'SENTINELS': [('mysentinel.redis.example.com', 6379)],
        'SENTINEL_SERVICE': 'netbox',
        'SENTINEL_TIMEOUT': 10,
        'PASSWORD': '',
        'DATABASE': 0,
        'SSL': False,
    },
    'caching': {
        'SENTINELS': [
            ('mysentinel.redis.example.com', 6379),
            ('othersentinel.redis.example.com', 6379)
        ],
        'SENTINEL_SERVICE': 'netbox',
        'PASSWORD': '',
        'DATABASE': 1,
        'SSL': False,
    }
}
```

!!! note
    It is permissible to use Sentinel for only one database and not the other.

---

## SECRET_KEY

This is a secret, random string used to assist in the creation new cryptographic hashes for passwords and HTTP cookies. The key defined here should not be shared outside of the configuration file. `SECRET_KEY` can be changed at any time, however be aware that doing so will invalidate all existing sessions.

Please note that this key is **not** used directly for hashing user passwords or for the encrypted storage of secret data in NetBox.

`SECRET_KEY` should be at least 50 characters in length and contain a random mix of letters, digits, and symbols. The script located at `$INSTALL_ROOT/netbox/generate_secret_key.py` may be used to generate a suitable key.

Commit message:

feat: Able to connect to sentinel with a password

docs/configuration/required-settings.md, after:

# Required Configuration Settings

## ALLOWED_HOSTS

This is a list of valid fully-qualified domain names (FQDNs) and/or IP addresses that can be used to reach the NetBox service. Usually this is the same as the hostname for the NetBox server, but can also be different; for example, when using a reverse proxy serving the NetBox website under a different FQDN than the hostname of the NetBox server. To help guard against [HTTP Host header attackes](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/topics/security/#host-headers-virtual-hosting), NetBox will not permit access to the server via any other hostnames (or IPs).

!!! note
    This parameter must always be defined as a list or tuple, even if only a single value is provided.

The value of this option is also used to set `CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS`, which restricts POST requests to the same set of hosts (more about this [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#std:setting-CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS)). Keep in mind that NetBox, by default, sets `USE_X_FORWARDED_HOST` to true, which means that if you're using a reverse proxy, it's the FQDN used to reach that reverse proxy which needs to be in this list (more about this [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts)).

Example:

```
ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['netbox.example.com', '192.0.2.123']
```

If you are not yet sure what the domain name and/or IP address of the NetBox installation will be, and are comfortable accepting the risks in doing so, you can set this to a wildcard (asterisk) to allow all host values:

```
ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['*']
```

---

## DATABASE

NetBox requires access to a PostgreSQL 10 or later database service to store data. This service can run locally on the NetBox server or on a remote system. The following parameters must be defined within the `DATABASE` dictionary:

* `NAME` - Database name
* `USER` - PostgreSQL username
* `PASSWORD` - PostgreSQL password
* `HOST` - Name or IP address of the database server (use `localhost` if running locally)
* `PORT` - TCP port of the PostgreSQL service; leave blank for default port (TCP/5432)
* `CONN_MAX_AGE` - Lifetime of a [persistent database connection](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/databases/#persistent-connections), in seconds (300 is the default)

Example:

```python
DATABASE = {
    'NAME': 'netbox',               # Database name
    'USER': 'netbox',               # PostgreSQL username
    'PASSWORD': 'J5brHrAXFLQSif0K', # PostgreSQL password
    'HOST': 'localhost',            # Database server
    'PORT': '',                     # Database port (leave blank for default)
    'CONN_MAX_AGE': 300,            # Max database connection age
}
```

!!! note
    NetBox supports all PostgreSQL database options supported by the underlying Django framework. For a complete list of available parameters, please see [the Django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/settings/#databases).

---

## REDIS

[Redis](https://redis.io/) is an in-memory data store similar to memcached. While Redis has been an optional component of
NetBox since the introduction of webhooks in version 2.4, it is required starting in 2.6 to support NetBox's caching
functionality (as well as other planned features). In 2.7, the connection settings were broken down into two sections for
task queuing and caching, allowing the user to connect to different Redis instances/databases per feature.

Redis is configured using a configuration setting similar to `DATABASE` and these settings are the same for both of the `tasks` and `caching` subsections:

* `HOST` - Name or IP address of the Redis server (use `localhost` if running locally)
* `PORT` - TCP port of the Redis service; leave blank for default port (6379)
* `PASSWORD` - Redis password (if set)
* `DATABASE` - Numeric database ID
* `SSL` - Use SSL connection to Redis
* `INSECURE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY` - Set to `True` to **disable** TLS certificate verification (not recommended)

An example configuration is provided below:

```python
REDIS = {
    'tasks': {
        'HOST': 'redis.example.com',
        'PORT': 1234,
        'PASSWORD': 'foobar',
        'DATABASE': 0,
        'SSL': False,
    },
    'caching': {
        'HOST': 'localhost',
        'PORT': 6379,
        'PASSWORD': '',
        'DATABASE': 1,
        'SSL': False,
    }
}
```

!!! note
    If you are upgrading from a NetBox release older than v2.7.0, please note that the Redis connection configuration
    settings have changed. Manual modification to bring the `REDIS` section inline with the above specification is
    necessary

!!! warning
    It is highly recommended to keep the task and cache databases separate. Using the same database number on the
    same Redis instance for both may result in queued background tasks being lost during cache flushing events.

### Using Redis Sentinel

If you are using [Redis Sentinel](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel) for high-availability purposes, there is minimal 
configuration necessary to convert NetBox to recognize it. It requires the removal of the `HOST` and `PORT` keys from 
above and the addition of three new keys.

* `SENTINELS`: List of tuples or tuple of tuples with each inner tuple containing the name or IP address 
of the Redis server and port for each sentinel instance to connect to
* `SENTINEL_SERVICE`: Name of the master / service to connect to
* `SENTINEL_TIMEOUT`: Connection timeout, in seconds
* `SENTINEL_PASSWORD`: Password to connect to sentinel (if set)

Example:

```python
REDIS = {
    'tasks': {
        'SENTINELS': [('mysentinel.redis.example.com', 6379)],
        'SENTINEL_SERVICE': 'netbox',
        'SENTINEL_TIMEOUT': 10,
	'SENTINEL_PASSWORD': '',
        'PASSWORD': '',
        'DATABASE': 0,
        'SSL': False,
    },
    'caching': {
        'SENTINELS': [
            ('mysentinel.redis.example.com', 6379),
            ('othersentinel.redis.example.com', 6379)
        ],
        'SENTINEL_SERVICE': 'netbox',
	'SENTINEL_PASSWORD': '',
        'PASSWORD': '',
        'DATABASE': 1,
        'SSL': False,
    }
}
```

!!! note
    It is permissible to use Sentinel for only one database and not the other.

---

## SECRET_KEY

This is a secret, random string used to assist in the creation new cryptographic hashes for passwords and HTTP cookies. The key defined here should not be shared outside of the configuration file. `SECRET_KEY` can be changed at any time, however be aware that doing so will invalidate all existing sessions.

Please note that this key is **not** used directly for hashing user passwords or for the encrypted storage of secret data in NetBox.

`SECRET_KEY` should be at least 50 characters in length and contain a random mix of letters, digits, and symbols. The script located at `$INSTALL_ROOT/netbox/generate_secret_key.py` may be used to generate a suitable key.
